Hello, everyone.
This is a quick update, video that I'm filming in June of 2020.
So in our previous lesson, you and I finally completed our live search overlay feature.
However, we wrote the code using J query.
Now, in my opinion, there's nothing inherently wrong with using J.
Query.
But in today's Web development industry, there's definitely a demand for developers who can write JavaScript
without J.
Query, because doing this allows our final bundled JavaScript file to be a good bit smaller than if
we did use J.
Query.
This means faster download times for our visitors.
So in this lesson I want to show you a J.
Query free version of our search overlay file.
So this is our search.
J.
S file that we've been working on together.
And this absolutely does use J.
Query.
However, if I switch to this window.
This is a version of the search code that I've written off camera.
And this does not use J.
Query.
You can find this file to download in the associated resources for this lesson.
We're not going to walk through this character by character line by line, but I am going to walk through
the big differences in just a moment with you.
For now, though, right away, I want to let you know that this file is a direct drop in replacement
for our other search J.
S file.
So, for example, I can just copy this entire file and then back in the file that we've been working
on.
I can just delete everything in there, paste in my clipboard, hit, save and with my NPM run dev command
running in the command line.
That's going to automatically bundle everything up and back in the browser.
I will manually refresh just to make sure that the event handlers for the search icon click are not
doubling up.
But if I open the search and search for biology, you can see that it works exactly the same.
Only now my code is not relying on J.
Query.
So at this point, let's jump into the file and I want to walk through from a bird's eye view.
The big difference is that I made to the code right away.
On line number one, we see that I'm importing something named Axios.
We will talk about Axios in just a moment.
For now, though, if we look inside the constructor, you can see that to select an element instead
of using the J query dollar sign and then including a CSF like selector, I'm instead just saying document
dot, query selector.
And then again, you can use a CSF like selector.
So all modern Web browsers offer this to us natively.
We don't need the extra library or framework like J.
Query.
In addition to query selector, which will select the first instance of this element, we also have
query selector all which will return an array or a node list of all elements that match this selector.
I used this because in our H t Amelle there are two different J.
S search trigger elements.
There is one designed for desktops and then one designed for mobile devices.
So this means that our property of open button is a collection or an array that contains multiple elements.
So then down a bit in the events, you can see that here is that open button, which contains multiple
elements.
I do need to manually loop through that array and for each element in that collection, I am manually
adding an event listener.
So that's one nice thing that Jake Query does for us in Jake Query.
You can select multiple elements and then you can sort of act on that variable as if it's just one element.
And Jake Query will do something to all of the elements in that collection for you.
But as you can see, this is not a big deal.
Doing this manually is not the end of the world.
Next up, instead of using Jake queries on method for event listening, you can see I'm just using the
JavaScript native add event listener moving on.
For the most part, all of the code stayed exactly the same.
We continue to scroll down here.
We see a big difference.
So instead of using the J query method to send a request to a server, I'm now using something called
Axios.
So Axios is a popular package that has nothing to do with WordPress or J Query or anything.
It's just its own independent entity.
But it's the industry standard for sending off HTP requests.
Technically, we could take things one step further and instead of using axios, you could just use
the Web browsers, fetch API.
But in my opinion, Axios makes our lives a lot easier.
So with Axios you just say Axios dot get you give it a U RL and then it's going to return a promise.
So that's why I have the word a wait here that's going to make sure that JavaScript doesn't move on
to the next line of code until this promise has completed, because we don't know how long it's going
to take for the server to actually give us this result back.
So I'm saving that in a variable named response.
Once this actually finishes, then JavaScript will continue running the rest of our code instead of
using a J.
Query method to set the H.T. Amelle for Element.
You can just use the JavaScript or Web browser native function of DOT inner HDMI.
Well, actually, it's not a function or method.
It's just a property.
And we can manipulate its value here.
OK, moving on, if we scroll down, there's really not any other huge changes.
I will point out that instead of using J query to add or remove a CSX class from an element.
Well, every modern Web browser has something called class list that belongs to any HDMI oil element.
And then you can just say class list, dot add or class list dot remove.
So we don't need J query for that.
And honestly, that's basically it for the whole file.
Now, again, I encourage you to download this file and drop it in and replace your existing search
J.S. file.
And if you're curious how I accomplished any of this without J query, just go ahead and dig through
the code.
I didn't refilled this entire previous chapter to use this Jake re free version because all of the concepts
and principles stay exactly the same.
It's just minor syntax differences here and there to utilize the Web browsers native functionality.
Right, instead of the J.
Query specific version.
Anyways, I strongly encourage you to use this drop in J query free replacement for our search J.
S module.
It should make our overall JavaScript a bit more lightweight.
And with that in mind, we're going to move on to the next chapter.
Let's keep things rolling and I'll see you then.